# Inequality in Educational Attainment Peruvian case study

## Abstract
This reseach explores the effects of individuals’ social background on educational attainment in Peru, a country that has experienced a decade of high and sustained economic growth. While Peruvian government officials have claimed economic growth has increased equality of socio-economic opportunities, this claim remains empirically untested to date. Using [Young Lives Longitudinal](https://www.younglives.org.uk/data) database, this study examines inequality of educational opportunities in Peru by looking at the effect of parental economic, educational and ethno-linguistic background on children’s educational attainment. I disentangle primary effects –mediated performance and academic ability– and secondary –unmediated– effects of origin on two important educational transitions. The first, compulsory, from primary to secondary school, and the second voluntary, from primary to secondary. As in the previous literature, we find that while performance and ability have a mediating role in explaining parental effects on children education attainment, there exist a significant residual effect of parental background on educational attainment. I find evidence of the overall positive effect of expansion in the education supply between the two cohorts. However, primary effects of socio-economic characteristics have actually diminished, and the residual effect of social background is very sizeable in all educational transitions. 

## Data & Method

